---
title: "Rewards"
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Rewards

Staking rewards are distributed to stmADA holders during each epoch. An epoch is a fixed period of time, which typically lasts five days, during which staking rewards are calculated and distributed. 

At the end of each epoch, the total rewards earned by a staking pool are calculated based on various factors, including the number of blocks created by the pool, the pool's performance, and the amount of ADA staked in the pool.


:::note
Saturation Point: To promote decentralization, Cardano sets a saturation point for staking pools. If a pool's stake reaches this saturation point, the rewards for delegating to that pool start decreasing. This encourages ADA holders to delegate to smaller pools, distributing rewards more evenly across the network.
:::

Individual Rewards: The rewards earned by each ADA holder are proportional to the amount of ADA they have staked in the pool. If an ADA holder has delegated more ADA to a pool, they will receive a higher share of the rewards generated by that pool.



:::tip
Compound Interest Effect: Over time, staking rewards can have a compound interest effect. As ADA holders continue to stake and earn rewards in subsequent epochs, their staked balance increases, leading to higher rewards in future epochs.
:::



Here's how rewards are calculated in Milkomeda Liquid Staking:

- Cardano staking rewards: The Cardano staking rewards are calculated based on the total amount of ADA staked in the network and the current block production rate. The rewards are distributed to the holders of stmADA tokens on a pro-rata basis.
- Milkomeda DAO fees: The Milkomeda DAO charges a fee of 5% of the Cardano staking rewards. This fee is used to fund the development and maintenance of the Milkomeda ecosystem.
- Staking rewards: The remaining 95% of the Cardano staking rewards are distributed to the holders of stmADA tokens. The rewards are distributed every epoch, which is a period of 5 days.



<details><summary>
Detailed steps of reward calculation
</summary>
<p>

1. Calculate what the staking rewards will be ahead of the epoch boundary
1. Transfer that amount of tokens to Milkomeda ahead of time (Cardano has no tx prioritization, so sending too close to the epoch boundary may cause delays)
1. Right before the epoch boundary, stop processing wrap requests
1. Deposit the mADA in Milkomeda from (2) into the liquid staking contract
1. Unpause the wraping requests


</p>
</details>
